#summary Some basics on how to talk a UrT server

= Introduction =

Talking to an Urban Terror server is not that difficult, but requires things to be done a certain way.

Most communication is just plain text.

All commands to the server must begin with four chars (4 bytes) of 255 (hex:FF) followed by the name of the command.

For example, to send the command 'test' to the server you would say:

  ===`[FF][FF][FF][FF]test\n`===

where *`[ff]`* represents a single byte containing 255 and *`\n`* is a linefeed (ASCII character 12, hex: 0A ).


The response from the server is plain text, but is padded at the beginning of each packet with 4 bytes of 255 as well.

For example, sending the command:

   ===`[FF][FF][FF][FF]rcon\n`===

without any password or other information will return this from the server:

   ===`[FF][FF][FF][FF]print\nBad rconpassword.\n`===


Anything that can be done as an rcon command in game can also be done via this method as well.

This means that all the familiar commands work (status, kick, etc...)


= Commands =

Not all commands require rcon access.

The 'getstatus' command is what is used by sites like Gametracker and programs like Qtracker to retrieve information from a server.


|| *Command* || *Info* || *Tested Remotely* ||
|| `getstatus` || Returns a basic list of players and the server config || Yes ||
|| `getinfo` || Returns a short description on the server (name, map, players..) || Yes ||
|| `getchallenge` || Returns an integer for a challenge response || Yes ||
|| `rcon status`  || Returns list of players and their information || Yes ||
|| `rcon serverinfo` || Returns a formatted list of the same information as `getstatus` || Yes ||
|| `rcon fdir *.bsp` || Returns list of all maps on the server || Yes ||
|| `rcon map <map name>` || Changes current map || Yes ||
|| `rcon kick <player name>` || Kicks the player with the matching name  || No ||
|| `rcon clientkick <player slot>` || Kicks the player in the given slot || Yes ||
|| `rcon addip <IP>` || Adds the given IP to the ban list || Yes ||
|| `rcon removeip <IP>` || Removes the given IP from the ban list || Yes ||
|| `rcon dumpuser <slot>` || Returns a formatted list of player infomation || Yes ||


= Shell Script =

If you are using a Linix/Unix/Solaris/BSD box then you can get the status of the server on the command line.

Rcon Status (password required)

{{{
printf '\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFFrcon <PASSWORD> status\n' | nc -u -n -w 1 <SERVER_IP> <SERVER_PORT> | sed -ne ':x;/\xFF/{N;s/\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFFprint\n//;tx};/^$/d;p'
}}}

Basic Status (no password required)

{{{
printf '\xFF\xFF\xFF\xFFgetstatus\n' | nc -u -n -w 1 <SERVER_IP> <SERVER_PORT>
}}}

(Replace `<PASSWORD>`, `<SERVER_IP>`, `<SERVER_PORT>` above with the actual values)


= Blacklisted Characters =

The quake3 server does not allow any variable to contain:

`\ ; "`
	
	